[music]
>> Bloomberg Audio Studios. Podcasts,
radio, news.
>> [music]
>> Hello and welcome to another episode of
the Odd Lots podcast. I'm Joe
Weisenthal. [music] And I'm Tracy
Alloway. Tracy, we're recording this
March 25th, 2026. It's 9:10 a.m. Are you
going to do the seconds as well? No.
But the reason they do mention the time
when the cash trading in the stock
market hasn't opened. The reason I
mentioned the time is not just because
things are moving fast. But to establish
we've had market moving headlines
already this morning. Oh, absolutely.
>> just in the last like 15-20 minutes we
got some headlines attributed to the
Fars News Agency out of Iran saying
there is no interest in talks, there's
no interest in ceasefire, the US
position about pursuing a ceasefire is
illogical. That moved futures down a
little bit. We're, you know, it's a
cliche, you know, a headline driven
market. You hear that a lot. The last
several weeks have felt like the
headline driven market to drive all
headline driven markets. No, it really,
I know it's a cliche, but it really is a
headline driven market. And I think part
of the issue here is because no one's
entirely sure what the goals are when it
comes to Iran. It's really hard to judge
progress of the conflict on any sort of
fundamental basis, right? So all you can
look at is basically what Trump and the
other two sides are saying and so you
get these big reactions every time they
tweet something or post on Truth Social
and then tend to contradict each other.
Absolutely. And you know, I do think,
look, there is this extreme level of
skepticism from almost any headline you
get out of the US White House.
I think if you go back to the
post-liberation day environment,
particularly with the sort of modest
rapprochement with China, you would get
these headlines we're talking and then
the Chinese would put out a headline
we're not talking, but then it turns out
that there was a little bit more talk
than what maybe the Chinese had had
admitted to. So often I think as much as
you dis as many people are inclined to
disbelieve headlines, I don't think
people disbelieve them entirely.
When Trump said yesterday that the
Iranians had sent him a prize that was
extremely valuable and it's like oof.
I mean, that's tough to take seriously,
but what is there some modest signal? I
don't know, it's really tough. It's
really tough. But I you know, I just
want to say two other things real
quickly on this, which is that even with
the headline today about Iran rejecting
ceasefire, futures are still up. So it's
not like people have like completely,
oh, nothing's happening. And for all the
talk about and we've had multiple guests
and I they're the smartest people in the
world talk about oh, oil is going to
surge the longer this goes on. As of the
time we're talking about this, Brent
crude is still right around or just
under $100. We haven't had the mega
surge yet. So
I like to take markets seriously even if
sometimes I don't always understand what
they're doing. Well, the big question to
me is whether or not markets are still
in denial, right? And you see people
talking about like, oh,
people are being very optimistic about
the future. I saw the Morgan Stanley
report saying that corporate profits
were going to go up later this year. The
oil price, again, we're talking about
the closure of the Strait of Hormuz,
which is the sort of thought experiment
that has bedeviled oil analysts for
decades and yet, you know, the reaction
has been kind of muted. Yeah. Meanwhile,
in the rates market, there's a lot going
on there, too, and you still have a lot
of bond traders who are very reluctant
to price out the possibility of a rate
cut later this year. Completely. And it
feels like the idea of a rate cut, at
least for now, does not seem anywhere
near the quote table, but yeah. Anyway,
so how do traders even like make sense
of this headline? How do they know what
headlines to believe? Why does there
sometimes seem to be this gap between
what a lot of people think the market
should be and where it actually is? Very
excited to say we have one of the most
plugged-in people that we know. It's
someone who is talking to people who
move serious money every single day. He
goes around the world and he has dinners
with them and he talks to them about
their trades. He even brought us a nice
gift, which is his tour [laughter] A
tour t-shirt. It is the cover the macro
dinners 2026 tour with a nice Deutsche
Bank logo.
>> But you should read some of those cities
just to give an idea.
>> of the macro dinner tour, Jan 4th,
London, Jan 21st, Geneva, Jan 29th,
Milan, Miami, Budapest, London, New York
City, Montreal, Copenhagen, Riyadh,
Doha, Dubai, etc. You get the idea. He's
always talking to people and he has the
one of the most plugged-in people that
we talk to. We are going to be speaking,
of course, to the one and only Ozan
Torman, vice chair of global macro at
Deutsche Bank. So uh
Ozan, thank you for coming back on Odd
Lots. Joe and Tracy, it's an absolute
pleasure. Highlights of the week really
close to where I used to live in New
York City as well. Uh it's great having
you here in studio. It's a pretty wild
market to trade, I assume. Very, very
wild market to trade and on the t-shirt,
unfortunately, for example, the three
odds, Qatar,
Dubai leg that I was looking forward to,
we'll see what happens.
>> Oh, right. So We'll see what we'll see
we'll see what happens with with that,
but not necessarily untradable. Still,
traders always smell things, always have
a sense of where the pain trade is,
where the momentum is. Even walking in
now, I became a veteran of this
wonderful show. I was thinking this time
around we should really say Wednesday
night
>> Yeah, that's right. You know how it
works.
Well, you know, I I know that what I can
say now one day later may look a little
bit different, etc., etc., but still
walking in now, obviously, it's a big
cliche to say it takes two to tango or
taco, three maybe. But that being said,
at the moment the pain trade, the
momentum trade is for this equity rally
and oil fall to continue.
There are many, unfortunately, I have
told all my clients, friends, fans,
wounded, hurt players out there.
Certainly in rates market, certainly on
front end. So people are reluctant to
take fresh bets, but as I constantly
hold these conversations, round tables,
I do get the sense that now getting to
know the president well as well, people
did expect this we won the war, I won
the war, mission accomplished moment,
which he's trying to do in a few ways.
Then the big debate is yes, and we do
get these spikes of equity higher, oil
lower. At the end, as you rightly said,
even Brent is lower than 100 and we
should talk WTI, WTI is even lower.
But do you fade it or not? That's what
it boils down to.
Another big true cliche is what does
Iran do? What does Iran say as we speak
because of Fars, like you said, Israel
12 said that these talks are happening.
Fars, Iran said no, we're still waiting.
Which one to fade? That's the big
question mark. My gut feel from what I
sense from the clients is
there is room for a squeeze here in
equity higher, oil lower, but the tail
risk is very, very fat. Yeah. All right,
so talk to us more about positioning. I
mean, going into this war, I think
everyone was pretty much expecting rate
cuts later in the year, oil prices,
nothing dramatic there, certainly.
Did everyone just change very, very
quickly and now we're left with
positioning that can lead to a bigger
squeeze higher? Very relevant question.
I want to take us back to February 27th,
the night before the attack on Iran.
Again, I was visiting Palm Beach and
Miami and the feel couldn't be more
different. The main obsession, focus of
the US client base, the key players was
AI. Mhm. Something
big is going to happen, Schumer, how 50%
of white-collar jobs could be lost in 12
to 18 months.
So finally, not only rate cut
expectations were increasing, we were we
were getting bull flatteners, so even
long end was coming down. Thursday,
Friday, it was around 4:05 and I do
remember before Iran, US 10-year closed
top tick 3.93.
And cannot be named but some one of
those more legendary friends, clients of
mine, comes to me with an email, Ozan,
we nailed this, this, that, bond is the
new gold. Well, we need to talk about
our friend gold as well. Look what
happened to gold.
One more thing, another good friend, I
did bring this on paper because very,
very telling. This guy sends me a
message, I think the Tuesday or
Wednesday before Iran, the
multi-trillion question is can the rest
of the world isolate itself from this
destruction? I am not sure. He was
talking more about the AI fears.
Another observation, today reminds me of
early February 2020. While we all saw
people falling over in China, it became
clear by the day that we're about to see
a pandemic. The S&P made new all-time
high. The same is today with Iran,
nobody cares. I mean Yeah. Rings so true
now, right?
>> Actually, let's talk about gold and
positioning for a second. The last time
we had you on was September and one of
the themes of that was the relentless
bid into gold. And whenever we frame a
conversation, I'm like, oh god, this is
going to be the top. It was not the top
even close. So that was gold was around
3,800, now it's during that episode it
got over $5,500 and now it's nearly
February. As of yesterday, we saw a
10-day gold sell-off. How much is this
just about all these different trades
not working at once? The steepener trade
not working at once, the oil trade not
working at the same time, and
essentially a lot of players being
forced to liquidate the one big winning
thing that they had in their portfolio.
Very much so. And look, I love you guys,
but on the last show as well, uh when we
all started with gold Nvidia, gold
Nvidia,
>> I was [clears throat] very, you know,
happily and politely answering, but in
my mind I was saying this is an orange
sign.
>> of course, yeah. So and then I listened
to our show, we did so, I'm like, risk
on this works, risk off this works. I'm
like, Joe, Tracy, like it has to be
something that comes from the left field
that gets the whole thing Yeah. unwound.
And even though the guy says here Iran,
people look and nobody cares,
the repercussions on the position is
just like you said, that people to get
out of all winners.
And gold was a big winner. Emerging
markets were big winners. Yeah. So, that
was the first trigger. And then
another story now. Once you are in this
position, once you realize it's not
days, it's not weeks, it's going to
continue on and on.
Petrodollar countries, other people
start selling their winners to build
defense mechanisms.
I mean, it's almost like public
reporting in terms of China, my
motherland Turkey, India. They have
these gold reserves for a reason. So,
that's another reason why first
technicals, you go after your winner,
and then fundamentally some of these
strong hands for understandable reasons
are selling them. Everything happened
back to Tracy's question. So, people
were all into these bear flatten
steepeners first, then they believed in
bull flatteners because everything was
all rates were coming down. Then you get
into this world, and thanks for jumping
onto it. Monday after Iran, warflation,
warflation. This is serious inflation
expectations will increase. It's not as
simple as finding the next Venezuela
Jersey.
And my god, from like getting ready for
cut, you know, discussion one, two, or
maybe three in Fed,
at least hold ECB, and certainly cut
Bank of England. Look where we are now.
For a while we priced in four hikes for
Bank of England and ECB. We're right
below three now for both.
That's huge. That means seats are lost,
pods are closed, all positions are
closed.
>> how many times have you heard the word
liquidation or, you know, a pod shop
blowing up in the past few weeks?
>> A lot, unfortunately, right?
Capitulation. And I teach all our
youngsters or mentors. So, after all,
the cliche is oh, investment bank will
do well, trading floor will do well
because, you know, bid offer, fear. No,
not like that. After a while, there is
really something called bad volatility.
And this is bad volatility. From these
crazy headlines being that much slaves
to what somebody says at Friday 10:00
p.m. to Saturday 11:00 p.m. to
also
this much of liquidation and
capitulation after a while,
people say the best thing is blank piece
of paper,
less trading, and less watch. That's why
your opening question. Some people see
this market as untradable.
But unfortunately, in times like this,
especially if you're not wounded,
somehow
flat is the new up. If you have
survived, these are the moments to
make the difference. Who knows? Who
knows, Joe? Maybe this is right around
April 9th, 2025 moment. This is when
maybe maybe this is right around around
the dip, and we will remember it like
the time we have we were able to look
through it. I have my doubts, but maybe.
>> [music]
[music]
>> What is a pain trade, and why why is
that a useful concept? Very good
question. You know what you know what
triggers me.
A pain trade, I mean, it's not the ideal
definition maybe because you don't want
your clients and friends to be in pain,
but a lot of it even before the days of
quant trading,
crowding out positioning is so important
for this market.
After a while it can become as important
as
a fundamental factor.
After a while you do
feel that in these echo chambers,
players almost want to believe because
of the pricing fundamentals on what
they're talking about. So, pain trade is
when that herd gets a belief in a trade
so much, and when it works just the
other way around. I mean, what happened
to gold is a big one because for a long
time it was unshaken, but sometimes even
smaller instances, like for the past 15
to 18 months, we really believed that
big dollar would trade soft. What I mean
by that is either because of hedge
ratios, dedollarization,
dollar wouldn't be the safe haven that
it used to be.
It would make sense to sell dollars
whenever one has a chance. Now, all of a
sudden, because of Iran,
because of people building up selling
their winners to go to safe havens.
If we trade towards the 110, 111 before
120, 121,
that's a much less talked about pain
trade.
Why? Because it's going to further shake
places like rest of the world, emerging
markets,
Korea, etc., etc. And of course, it
opens conversation, right? Sometimes you
say Sometimes pain trade is so obvious.
Sometimes some of it is no, this you
know, that trade is there for a reason.
Consensus is going to continue to work.
You develop a market, you trade on it.
On the dollar, and this is related to
gold as well. We do seem to be in this
weird situation where like, okay, people
are liquidating the successful trades to
raise cash, go neutral, whatever.
But at the same time, you still have
plenty of people talking about
diversification away from the US. And
you could make a very strong argument
that given what's happening in the oil
market right now, maybe you don't want
to only price that in dollars. Maybe you
want to start thinking about other
currencies. How are people thinking
about the, I guess, like US
exceptionalism trade at the moment? Cuz
there's two crosscurrents. For sure.
It's moving from US exceptionalism,
selling your US assets to more hedge
ratios.
It [clears throat] definitely moved,
let's put it that way. Again, at the
beginning of January, February, all
these events one after another,
Venezuela, Greenland. My god, so much
happened in 3 months.
Tell us about it.
Powell's case. Again, not necessarily
selling your US asset, but buying more,
buying less, increasing your hedge
ratios had become fashionable. But
you're very right, Tracy. My partner in
success, one of them, George Saravelos,
head of our FX strategy, he has this,
you know, he has this
rough formula. Euro-dollar, roughly 2/3
oil price, 1/3 gas price. It should have
traded around 112.50, 113 as we speak.
It doesn't. Part of the reason is
exactly this. Despite what oil is doing,
despite what gas is doing, people do
want to own a little bit less dollars.
But unfortunately, as I sit here, as I
come to my old loss every 3 months or
so, while share Deutsche Bank, proudly
waving my blue make Europe great again
hat,
it's in trouble a bit. Whether this war,
you know, takes another 1 week, 2 week,
2 months, the wounds will stay. The
wounds will especially stay in oil and
gas prices. We disrupt the supply
enough, and the big importer, the ones
who need those oil and gas prices lower,
is Europe. So, in an understanding way,
talking about when consensus starts
becoming more sense, in these round
tables and beyond, it's becoming a bit
fashionable
to start questioning the European
equities, European credits. Funny
enough, it doesn't show as much yet in
the FX,
but watch out for the equity and credit
angle of this Europe trade. So, this is
this is really important, which is that
basically, okay, there's this long-term
pessimism about Europe, but there had
been some optimism recently, and cheaper
energy prices certainly helped the
relative competitiveness and
profitability of the domestic industrial
giants, and so forth. But
we're going to probably be, regardless
of the length of the war, in a period of
structurally higher energy prices, and
that continues to build to the negative
side of Europe. So, let's talk a little
bit more about oil because
if you just talk to the oil analysts,
who I love, like their hair is on fire
right now. And they probably, you know,
this is
cataclysm. But Brent crude, not only is
it well off its highs from a week ago,
it's not even anywhere close to its
highs in 2022
at the peak of the inflation. I mean, we
got at one point in March 2022, Brent
crude was at 139. We're below 99
actually right now when I'm talking
about this. The thing is like, oh, you
close the Strait of Hormuz, oil just
explodes, etc. We all know it. We all
see it. There is nothing that any of us
Like you can like be online all day and
talk to all the energy experts. You are
like you do not know more information
than the market does. So, talk to us
like how you're thinking about oil and
the fact that there does seem to be this
gap between the hair on fire rhetoric of
the oil knowers versus the prices, which
are high, but even by the scale of the
last 5 years, not insane. I was as as
the question was coming, I was preparing
for my next
note to read, but first of all, on the
oil on fire, we all see and respect Jeff
Currie, what he said about
molecules.
And interesting, people are watching,
right? Did you see the tweet of head of
Iran parliament?
>> Oh, yeah. He said he he he
used the you can't print molecules.
This is another thing. He also referred
to another thing as fake news. Everyone
around the world is now talking the
same. That actually reminds me of a
friend who visited Afghanistan, and he
met some people who were working for the
Taliban, and like they started
WhatsApping him like Pepe the frog
memes, [laughter]
and they called him a soy boy, and stuff
like that. Like everyone talks the same
way. Anyway, that's a bit of a
divergence, but a little bit depressing
that this is the common language. Now
this is the lingua franca of the
internet. We all Everyone says
warflation.
But but this physical versus paper the
paper trading is very, very important.
So, this friend of mine, ex-colleague, I
worked with him for decades, big
commodity trader, now a dear client,
and, you know, one of these guys who he
he talks math. So, MIT, Russia's MIT,
etc., etc. He sends me a message, and we
are now even one more week late. This is
last week. And he doesn't do all zone
high all the time.
>> [laughter]
>> All zone all zone high on Hormuz. If
it's not starting to open in 1 month,
now 3 weeks, the world has a huge huge
huge problem. And this is not all zone.
This guy doesn't say here.
Qatar LNG will need months to restart
once Hormuz is clear. And in oil we have
10 millibytes of shuttings already and
Asian refineries are very very starved.
Pipelines to Red Sea would take years
and also are not a panacea. Etc. etc. He
talks about Houthis. So,
I get it. Brent versus what WTI WTI is
trading even better. Etc. etc. But
especially if the likes of Fars is
correct.
If we have a lot of talk but one way or
another this Hormuz is only two three
tanks, you know,
one Indian tank, one China tank. I do
fear that
these guys
warning us about physical delivery maybe
more right.
>> Yeah, and I look of course and I get the
logic. But the people in the oil market
who are trading whether they're
speculators, whether they're hedge
funds, whether they're real oil
companies who are having to hedge
production, they have a lot of money at
the line. They know all of this. There
is nothing that can be said about the
longer this goes on blah blah blah the
more they get shut in blah blah blah
running out of storage. It's going to
take time to rebuild. There's nothing
that can be said.
And I
and I respect the approaches as well.
This comes back to also why equities
haven't sold off that much, why credit
hasn't sold off that much. At the end of
the day, okay, it may not be Venezuela.
We didn't find the dirty, but I think
people do believe that this squeeze
longer squeeze will come and it's not
that easy to fade. So, whether it's
Islamabad, whether it's Vance meeting
somebody in Islamabad, whether president
I wouldn't be surprised in 2 days
saying, "I need 1 more week." And you
know, creating a delay. People do
believe that in 3 months time, 6 months
time, that's the forward oil market as
well. We will not be talking about this.
We will be talking much more about AI or
private credit. That's why the tail is
big. That's why
Okay, another I'm I'm choosing my words
carefully as well, but marines are
approaching. We're talking about cargo
island.
These friends clients talk to that
ex-general, this ex-general. Some claim
that taking control of Hormuz once
marines are there are there may not be
that difficult. Imagine that going
wrong. Imagine, you know, of course
lives being lost, but even Joe one or
two ships getting hit. These are not
These are not army professionals driving
those ships. These are people people on
payroll. So, even on one
gas ship, one oil ship hit,
things can get out of hand very very
quickly and that's why by the way, let's
think it back to markets. Okay, you have
a point. Oil is still Brent is still
below 100, but look what ECB and Bank of
Bank of England pricing did and they're
not backing away. They're saying Madame
Lagarde today,
of course like she she sounded calm. She
didn't say, "I embrace the three hike
pricing. I will hike." But she did say
we will be
we're watching this. So,
back to the 2020 analogies, people don't
want to be seen late.
Things can move very very fast. I do
want to talk about private credit
because I think it's important and it's
kind of gotten overshadowed by the Iran
situation for obvious reasons. But just
going back to the Taliban and soy boys,
which is
a sentence I never thought I would say
on this podcast. I mean, this is the
first like major conflict related market
event where we have
both sides to some extent using AI
generated memes and content to for you
know, propaganda purposes to express
their point of view on how the conflict
is going and what they're trying to
achieve.
I am very curious on a trading floor. If
you're a big investor, when Iran tweets
like a Lego video showing Trump doing
something or showing their reaction to
Trump doing something,
are traders watching those and thinking
seriously about them?
Thinking seriously about them am I I
don't know, but
and you know, they're watching. They're
forwarding each other the the things,
but more key thing is yeah, people do
start to weed out the more credible
sources or the more credible reverse
signs.
In this day and age we all translate
from Arabic very very quickly. We do
compare what a US source says on a
potential Islamabad meeting versus what
an Iranian source says.
After a while you do get a sense that
which Iranian source seems to be more
connected than the other. All of these
things are
I'm not going to say it makes our job
easier, but it makes our job even more
spicy complicated in a way. We do have
Yeah,
I completely get you. Lego and memes is
one extreme not very useful, but on the
on the useful side, yeah, there's
Iranian credible journalist is right
there on the table
tweeting and telling you, "Look at that.
Look at this." That helps. You know, I'm
thinking about your shirt again and the
dinners that are scheduled in the Gulf
region that may or may not happen, which
brings me you know, you're someone who
is extremely plugged in to money in that
area and there's this question of like
does something change in the trajectory
about the business of Dubai? There was a
headline about Millennium. Did you see
that?
>> I saw it. They may move some traders to
Jersey. Which Okay, cards on the table
like Dubai not probably not I've never
been.
I doubt it's my cup of tea. But at least
it looks very nice.
>> with some certainty that Dubai is more
fun than Jersey.
>> saying. It looks nicer than what I
imagine the island of Jersey is which
I just imagine it's very gray and bleak
all the time. I don't know, but I
assume.
Like, you know, do you think there's any
of the talk about is there going to be a
real trajectory in the amount of money
flowing into the Gulf?
Is that real? and out of the market. in
and out. Yeah.
>> term answer. Medium term answer of
course I do I have some dear friends
there beyond the this industry other
other industries like direct analogy
when I come to New York obviously you
see your clients, but you see your
friends. In Dubai you have to give even
more time because there has been such a
move for different funds taxes you you
know the deal. People do have short term
memory. Do remember COVID. But at the
same time of course this will have an
effect. Other areas may try to get some
of that influence. Maybe some of those
people go back to London. Maybe places
like Milan, other areas of Asia gets
more interesting. Absolutely heart goes
out to them, but at the same time it
affects the sentiment as well. By the
way, part of the reason why many people
got the whole Iranian thing wrong war
flash and all that.
It was that too. So, not only from that
Friday night Saturday morning of attack
to Monday we didn't get a dirty, you
know, the way I put it. You know,
Abdullah to Faisal etc. You know, there
was no regime change, but Iran
immediately began hitting GCC.
Lifestyles got affected. That affects
sentiment. So, way before the war is
about inflation and war flash and supply
chain, supply chain and sentiment got
affected right there. So,
my hope and thinking a year from now
when we do the show again,
the effect and power of Dubai and Qatar
will still be there. But yes, in the
short term
it's not going away. It's it's it's an
important market moving factor. By the
way, did you see that Delcy Rodríguez is
going to be speaking in Miami at a
investment conference backed by Saudi
Arabia. I'm just saying they don't make
communists like they used to.
>> [music]
[music]
>> Let's talk private credit because we
have all these headlines coming out
about redemption requests and a bunch of
funds limiting those as is their right
in the fund documentation. However, I am
starting to get frustrated with this
knee-jerk response which is you see all
these headlines, you know, Ares, Apollo
curbing withdrawals. And then everyone
in private credit is like, "Well, this
is fine. This is a feature of the
system. It's not a bug." And obviously
investors should have read the docs and
this is exactly what's supposed to
happen. Whereas to me it seems very
clear there is stress in private credit
regardless of what's actually happening
with withdrawals. And if you think about
private credit as this huge asset class
that was growing enormously in recent
years and was a major source of credit
and financing for companies in America,
then it seems very clear to me that what
we should be talking about right now
is a potential tightening of financial
conditions
as some of that demand starts to ebb
away.
How are you thinking about the private
credit space? And when you're doing your
meetings with investors, I'm very
curious how much time is spent on
private credit versus Iran right now?
Right before Iran it was all about
private credit and AI as a total. Now as
immediate headline to you last night
when I did a small round table,
of course it all started with Iran, but
I did make sure that we went to private
credit. And I'm with you Tracy. The
immediate reaction there from directly
involved people to more macro tourists
it's not systemic. It's not systemic.
It's not 2008, maybe 2001.
That you know, we smiled at each other.
That to me immediately a bit of an
orange sign. Okay, I understand. So,
it's it's all seems orderly. Withdrawals
are orderly. Etc. etc. But headlines are
not going away. If anything they are
definitely hiding behind Iran at the
moment. It would be almost all what we
would be talking about especially in US
if it wasn't for Iran. And by the way,
because of that my blue hat would would
have done much better than US. So,
that's another sad thing, right? It's
like a quote unquote US and Israel's
war, but Europe and UK and rest of the
world gets hurt more. But anyway, these
are the new cards we're dealt with.
The key thing to watch is at the moment
they claim
it's orderly, you get your money. If it
feels more and more like this ABC, we
see the headlines, you're not going to
be able to get your money for a while,
then first time you mentioned my binky,
I'm very curious to see what he says
tonight on my macro dinner. It's a
Wednesday macro dinner, big macro dinner
tonight. Is he still sticking to his
8,000? Why?
If people cannot take their own money
away from private credit and have to
sell something liquid, then watch out
for public credit that has been staying
very resilient and of course watch out
public equity. So, I'm watching that
space very very carefully. I do
understand why they immediately say it's
not systemic. I get it. But, you know,
okay, maybe it's not 2008, but it may be
something between this 2001 to 2008.
Also, it's very in to say yeah, it's not
leverage is not there. Thank God we may
not see the Northern Rock BBC scenes of
2007-2008,
all this queues and stuff. It's a more
quote unquote 1% problem. But, what if
it spreads and spreads and some of the
big US banks start lending less to these
friends?
What if insurance companies get hit more
and more?
Watch this space. I think it's a bit too
superficial to say it's not systemic.
It's going to be okay. It's almost like
the bank crisis of 2 years ago in this
place.
I'm more worried than that. You know,
one of the things we're talking about is
this very violent rate to move and
warflation and so forth. But, one of the
things that's emerged in the last few
weeks is there's growing evidence that
actually inflation was re-accelerating
even prior to the start of the war. And
so, when we look at these moves, we
might attribute some of them to the war
itself and the pass-through of oil
prices and the military spending and
that Trump gets another 200 billion
dollars for defense. That's more
spending. That's inflationary. But,
maybe like could it be that that is
actually not the story that the bigger
story in rates is simply that the data
showing that through the end of February
there is more evidence that inflation
was not heading down to 2% as many
people had maybe wishcasted. And that's
a really blow to my heart in terms of
expectations and stuff, right? Because
quote unquote we almost had them.
On Feb 7th It's closed.
>> [laughter]
>> We had a good thing going. It was a
hara-kiri. It was a hara-kiri.
Obviously, much more important than
market. It's a tragedy for humanity,
war, etc. But, for the market as well,
it was a hara-kiri. TY was at 393. If
that NFP printed like that, maybe we
would be talking 10-year 370s, etc. Now,
genie is completely out of the bottle
for very understandable reasons. Another
reason Another word I want to relate to
the relate to the inflation and before
we wrap up, this whole rationing. That's
a big watch out for Europe, for in Asia.
If this continues like this, if my
uh Russia MIT friend is right about
Hormuz and the and the problems. After a
while, I mean, people are already
talking about Look at Philippines air
headlines today for their airlines.
We may very soon be at a point when some
of these Asian countries can say, "Look,
I need to give energy and fuel to my
very important famous company, but much
more important than that, I need to give
fuel and energy and electricity to my
households. Sorry, I have to choose."
Yeah. In Europe, we may be told maybe,
you know, don't use that air
conditioning too much. Work from home
more. Travel less. Back to my t-shirt.
Sadly, Dubai, Qatar may be postponed for
understandable reasons, but what about
Asia? All these airline prices will will
shoot up. Maybe for work I will go, but
for leisure maybe there will be one less
travel. All of this stuff will hurt
growth. At the same time, it will need
you know, rationing means more fiscal
measures means more inflation
expectations. So, you know, I'm not in
love with the word stagflation, but also
I'm a rational guy. My job is to smell
the market. Yeah, it's
we woke up that stagflation fear. Ozan
Tormen, thank you so much for coming
back on Odd Lots. Thank you for the
t-shirts. Absolutely.
>> Always appreciate checking in with you
and
we'll talk to you again soon.
Next quarter. We'll do our quarterly
check-in next
>> I'd love Wait, will you put us on the
t-shirt? Just one of your stocks?
[laughter]
I
You guys are the highlight.
Thanks, Ozan.
>> Yeah, thank you so much.
>> [music]
>> I always love catching up with Ozan. I
just find it, you know, it's just
incredibly useful to talk to someone
who's always talking to people.
>> For sure.
>> Right? Like that is a valuable thing in
its own right. Ozan has very interesting
perspectives, but to be able to just
like channel his like his brilliant MIT
friend, what the people said at the
macro dinner last night, always very
useful.
>> You know, also to Ozan's point about
actual capacity cuts in Asia and Europe.
So, you know, because I travel a lot and
I've lived in different places, I'm on
all these different random emailing
lists for like services
>> Uh-huh.
and flights and airlines and
transportation and things like that. And
I am starting to get the fuel surcharge
emails. I got one from an Australian car
service that I used once ages ago. A lot
of Indian airlines are starting to add
fuel surcharges. Like you can see it
coming and it's happening actually like
pretty quickly. I just don't want to
travel right now. But, especially with
all the lines you see in the US. No,
seriously.
>> a separate issue, but yeah.
>> a separate issue. But, it's like I just
want to cancel as much as I can.
>> I'll remind you of that the next time
we're debating whether or not to go to
an external event and you're like,
"Yeah, I want to go." I don't want to go
right now. I don't want to go to
anything. But anyway, seriously, you
know, I do think like this is the thing
that I think about a lot, which is that
I've always been a take market seriously
and sometimes take them literally guy.
And I actually really don't like
>> you're a secret EMH bro. Yeah, not even
so secret. And I really don't like, you
know, there will be a headline from the
White House and oil will go down and
everyone will say, "Oh, they're people
are so stupid. They're being you know,
the investors are so stupid. Traders are
so stupid. There's a lie, whatever." And
I'm like, "I don't know about that."
But, like my point is there's a lot of
money on the line for people who are
paid to take this very seriously.
And if oil is trading below 100, I take
that seriously and I want to understand
why there's the gap because there's
nothing that all of us online and in the
media know that the people with a lot of
money on the line don't know, right?
This is a a fact. And I do think that's
a very interesting point that the people
with a lot at stake, yeah, oil is high,
but it's certainly not at the
hair-on-fire levels that either that we
even saw in 2022.
>> Well, my guess is that what we're seeing
also is a divorce between the financial
and the physical. That's true. That's
true.
>> you can trade oil futures and assume
that you're not going to have to take
delivery at some point, but at the same
time if you're after the physical
barrels,
you can't get those at the moment. So, I
don't even know how that like actually
relates to price.
>> There's apparently some price that we
see Rory Johnston's always quoted about
the actual physical price in Oman and
it's like significantly higher. But, the
two eventually have to merge, right?
Like they cannot remain disconnected
Yeah, but not for not for a while. So, I
think that disconnect is kind of like
what's in focus at the moment.
>> Well, if you're trading front month oil,
you have about a month, right?
>> Yeah, okay, fine. But, like I think
people are betting on like I don't have
to worry about it for a month. That's
what I'm saying. Very plausible. It's
it's certainly a very very difficult,
unusual time. I mean, Oh, totally. And
this is the other thing. To your point,
like it is very true that the outcome of
all of this basically hinges on three
players and one player in particular and
at any moment in time you could have
someone come out and announce a
ceasefire, at which point to Ozan's
comments earlier, like you could see an
almighty rally just because of
positioning going into this. You could
see a squeeze like without an agreement.
And so, I think like that's also where a
lot of the nervousness is coming from.
Like no one wants to be caught
completely offside if the conflict
suddenly ends. You know, Ozan used the
term bad vol. Yeah.
>> And I think that makes sense, which is
Okay, on one hand the trading desks,
sure there's a lot of activity in some
sense and so that is a source of profit.
On the other hand, this is the type of
environment where it's like maybe you
just want to stay away. You want to keep
positions light. If you have a position,
you don't want to like go all in or
anything like that.
>> a trader like staring at the VIX curve
and going bad vol, bad, bad. That's it.
All right, shall we leave it there?
>> Let's leave it there. This has been
another episode of the Odd Lots podcast.
I'm Tracy Alloway. You can follow me at
Tracy Alloway. And I'm Joe Weisenthal.
You can follow me at The Stalwart.
Follow our guest Ozan Tormen. He's at
OzanK Tormen. Follow our producers
Carmen Rodriguez at Carmen Arman, Dash
Bennett at Dashbot, and Kel Brooks at
Kel Brooks.
>> [music]
>> And for more Odd Lots content, go to
bloomberg.com/oddlots
for a daily newsletter and all of our
episodes. You can chat about all these
topics 24/7 in our Discord,
discord.gg/oddlots.
And if you enjoy Odd Lots, if you like
it when [music] we bring on Ozan to talk
about his binky, then please leave us a
positive review on your favorite podcast
platform. [music]
And remember, if you are a Bloomberg
subscriber, you can listen to all of our
episodes absolutely [music] ad free. All
you need to do is find the Bloomberg
channel on Apple Podcasts and follow the
instructions there. Thanks for
listening.
>> [music]
[music]
>> Ooh.
>> [singing]
[music]
>> Ooh.
Ooh.
>> [music]